[Music]
I like this. Yeah.
Yeah. And notice how much this is love.
Self
love. Eyes
open. Yeah. Look at them.
Yeah. I needed this.
Welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore living the life you
want with enjoyment and ease. It's a
rainy day here in California and maybe
maybe the audience can hear that rain in
our microphones and I hope that it is
soothing and enjoyable to you. It's
enjoyable to me so I hope you get to
hear it. Yeah. Yeah. And today we're
going to be recording a breakdown of a
coaching session. This is a session with
a man who came to one of our public
Q&As's which you can find links to those
in our show notes for the future. And in
this Q&A, this person received some
coaching from Joe on the that started
with a topic of how he can recognize his
own accomplishments. And it followed a
really fascinating journey to self-love,
which is a really interesting question
as to what that actually is and what it
looks like. And I think that this
session really demonstrates that
beautifully. So without further ado,
let's get started. How's it going? Good
to see you. Good to see you. Where are
you living? Seattle. Oh, wow. Can I live
there with you because it looks really,
really nice. Would love to have you.
That's great.
Yeah. So, um, pause already. Three or
four times now, he's doing this. He's
looking down and to the right. Mhm.
So, he's having a hard time seeing me.
He's having a hard time seeing himself.
He's like this is this this is the first
cue in the situation that there's like
there's a little bit of shame or a lot
of shame in being seen or or in seeing
himself. So this is the first clue about
what's going to happen. Yeah. All right.
Okay. Continue.
Why don't well why do I tend
to dismiss my
accomplishments and also to even more
than ignore my needs? I feel like I
dismiss them or feel like I not right to
have them. How how how is the answer to
that question going to help you?
What's the thing? So there again, stop.
Stop again. So now it went for a
straight head tilt. It wasn't even a
side. It was just a straight
down head
tilt. When I asked him, "What would it
get you?" So there's two stages.
Whenever we're having a hard time being
seen, is there is
the okay, I feel somewhat ashamed of the
fact that I'm not seeing myself or
that, you know, I'm I'm not good enough
to be seen. But then there's a deeper
shame typically of I want to be seen.
So often times you're working in both of
those two sections with somebody. It's
not just the being seen, it's the is it
okay to want to be seen? Mhm. Like I
want to be seen. I want you to see me.
Like there's a lot of shame in that for
some folks. And so we're seeing that
both of those are at play here.
Yeah. Fascinating.
What's that str the strategy of getting
that question answered gets you what?
Um I mean my immediate reaction is like
some way of loving myself maybe more.
Okay. Okay. Okay, hold on a second. So,
he said like maybe Mhm. kind of like
there's so much hedging there, which is
just more of
the it's not okay
to love myself, to want to be seen. Like
all these things that are 100%
completely human of us that we all
want. And there every child born wants
attention, wants to be seen, wants to be
loved, wants to love themselves, want to
believe there's a self to be loved. It's
just and it's amazing how we can how we
can um convince ourselves that there's
something wrong with all of that because
somebody in our
childhood wasn't able to give us the
attention
uh that we needed. Yeah. That's
interesting also how the initial
questions were a hedge like I want to
recognize my accomplishments you're like
well what would that get you and then
it's like then there's
the highly hedged well maybe selflove
right that's right and so this is part
of the not seeing yourself one of the
typical patterns that somebody who wants
to see themselves wants to be seen and
isn't getting that is they you'll notice
a lot of hedging in their in their words
and to if you're one of those people to
play with not
hedging is a very useful um set of
experiments to do.
All right, let's continue. Yeah. So,
what makes it the question isn't how do
I love myself or Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
it's literally that.
So, it's a one of the ways that you
think of loving yourself is to
acknowledge your accomplishments. One of
the ways you think of loving yourself is
what else? What was the other one? Uh
acknowledging that I have needs and not
dismissing them maybe. Okay, pausing
here cuz you can already see his how
he's doing less of the physical hedging.
Yeah. In having been seen for wanting
self-love. Yeah. And that not being
attacked or shamed, there's a way that
he's more present with you. Yeah.
Absolutely. And it's not no hedging,
it's less hedging, right? There's
there's one maybe instead of three
maybe. There's one look down instead of
four look down or whatever. Yeah, that's
right. Yeah. Well seen. Yeah. What makes
you say maybe?
I guess I'm just
not a certain discomfort with with
something it feels like.
Okay. So, tell tell me what give give me
a need that you are uncomfortable with.
Think I have a hard time articulating
those. um being seen,
recognized, not just accepted, but
welcomed. Yeah. Cool. What's beautiful
right there is that he has throughout
the course of the session he's gone from
the surface level question like how do I
recognize my my needs or my
accomplishments to with two or three
questions from you recognizing that what
he actually wants is to love himself and
now through another couple of questions
without you offering anything but him
just responding to those reflections to
those prompts
He's now laid out the path. He's like,
"Well, welcoming myself." What would
self love be? Welcoming myself. And
it'll be really interesting to see how
that plays out through the rest of the
session. But it looks like you didn't
need to offer him anything. He actually
had the entire path. Yeah. Ready to be
rolled out like a carpet. It's a great
pointer. I feel like that happens in
almost all of my sessions.
It however usually isn't as clear as
this. you can see the path that they're
laying out, but they don't just like
blatantly articulate it to you like this
guy this guy's doing. It's just like
it's beautiful. And and I think it's
such a critical thing is that
understanding that we all have it in us.
We all
know we all um have that sense the way a
a bird migrates that we have this sense
in us that we know the way home.
And it's so important to acknowledge
that if you're coaching somebody, but
even more important to acknowledge it in
yourself.
All right, let's move on. Yeah. Great.
Show me what it would be like to welcome
yourself right now.
Oh, you did it for a second. What
happened?
M it's in here for a second and then in
either I pulled away. Yeah. Yeah. Let's
go back. Go back to welcoming yourself
and notice what makes you
stop. Just be with it. You're going to
Yeah, there it is. What happened? What
did you do?
For those listening,
there's in first receiving the the
prompt of welcoming himself, there's a
very
self-possessed uprightness that like a
posture that he takes and then it lasts
for a few moments and then he looks down
again or kind of
closes. And that's what Joe is pointing
out. Yeah. Like I just quieted.
So, okay. How is it to hold a quiet and
a welcoming at the same time?
So, what I noticed is you're there's
some trying that's going on in your
system right now. There's some trying to
figure it out. But the first time you
welcomed yourself, it was an immediate
I feel like I try a lot. I feel like
it's sort of my cool. So, welcome
welcome to trying.
Okay. Yeah,
there you are. Yeah. So, there so that's
just something if you can't love the
thing, love the resistance to the
thing. That's a that's just a great
great pointer generally. If there's some
part of yourself you can't love, then
love the resistance to the thing you
can't love.
Yeah. And the recognition in him in
receiving that prompt was beautiful,
too. He was just like, "Oh, I hadn't
considered that." So sweet. Yeah. You
see more of him now in this moment.
Yeah. Feels lighter. Yeah.
Like I can move. Yeah.
Yeah. Right.
Yeah. What? What happened? It stopped
again. Yeah.
So there's a there's this opportunity
potentially. You could just be walking
through life welcoming yourself. I
could. Yeah. Right. Which will well then
you'll then beat yourself up for not
doing and then you'll you know like that
whole [__] thing will happen. Right.
You know Yeah. I wouldn't know anything
about that. Yeah. Exactly. Right. Okay.
So hold on a second. So this is
something else that's for folks who are
in this pattern. a lot of negative
self-t talk, a lot of shoods, a lot of,
you know, bully voice in the head
driving them to try to get to some idea
of perfection that can never actually be
held. And so that's what he's
acknowledging and I'm acknowledging in
this moment that that's existing in him,
but it exists in everybody in this
pattern.
Okay. Yeah. and and having that be
surfaced. I I can see just throughout
this
session his level of presence keeps
increasing as more of him is being seen.
Yeah. Like there's the part of him that
probably internally was already saying
like, "Well, now this is a new thing you
have to do or you're not good enough. If
you're not welcoming yourself all the
time, that's a new to-do." and then an
internal rebel like the whole system
just got seen in the way that you
uh reflected that and he's now here with
us even more. Yeah. Right. So the other
thing that I'm noticing is the more you
welcome yourself the redder your face is
getting
because Yeah. And some acknowledgement
too. How much how much is this right
that there's an acknowledgement as you
welcome yourself you're actually being
seen and welcomed by all these people.
Oh, it's [__] awesome.
Okay. Thought I'd be a lot more scared
of it than I am. I'm gonna feel a
little a little nervous. Oh, like keep
welcoming yourself. I don't want to like
the idea now is that you're going to
welcome yourself in this whole
conversation. Okay. There's no reason to
stop. So, yeah. And it's going to bring
some crazy ass emotions up as you said.
Oh my god. Yeah. I can
bunch of bubbling there. Yeah.
Yeah. So, back to welcoming. Welcome the
trying. Welcome the trying. Yeah. Yeah.
And then just name the things that come
up and then tell me how you're welcoming
them.
I just feel like a sense of trying to be
open here. Yeah. It's like so welcome
that trying.
Okay. And welcome the openness.
Okay. And welcome the resistance
to being open.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. So the cool thing here is
that he is sematically doing it. this
this session works because he is
literally I don't know if he's saying I
welcome it or what he's doing internally
but you can feel his body going oh this
thing I I'm I'm letting this thing step
into me or I'm stepping into this thing
and he's just doing it one after the
other. So there's a sematic and the
question of welcoming or loving
yourself. There's this idea that that
like it's some action or some words you
say. It is a sematic feeling. The way
that you feel when you're with a pet
that you adore or a child or
um somebody you have a crush on is a
little bit different but it's very
similar. There's a feeling that you have
towards them. It's like what is it like
to direct that feeling towards yourself?
It's a sematic experiencing. Yeah.
Reversal of the flow. Yeah. And it's not
it's not words. It's not I how do you
love yourself is is paramount to the
question of like how do you feel it is a
a a sense it's you're sensing yourself
and you're and and in this case he's
accessing it through welcoming. Oh, I'm
I am going to say this part of me you're
welcome here.
And that's that again is a visceral
sematic sensual experience.
All right, let's keep
going. Okay. Yeah.
Yeah. So, the question was, "How do I
love myself?" Yeah.
How we doing?
I feel like I'm better. I'm on a Yeah.
I want to say I'm on a path. So that
that's how it works is as you welcome
whatever
arises and it's a welcoming. It's like I
I can't wait for you. Whether it's the
sadness or the flushing or
the resistance to the resistance against
the longing, the trying.
So, so tell me what's required right
now.
Um, what's
required to like welcome the whole thing
in this moment?
A desire to do it. You have that. I do.
So, let's let's see it. Let's see what
it looks like just to welcome all of it
in this
moment.
Feels like I want to open my arms.
Great.
Yeah. You know this place, man. This is
not your first time here. No. Is this
what happens when you're working?
Not consistently, but
Ah, so that self judgment. You can
welcome that too. Yeah.
Yeah. That that's good.
Yeah. Yeah. So some so this is this is
Yeah. Stay stay with exactly what's
happening and I want to point out a
pattern. The pattern is that you know
that place but after you are in that
place somehow you it you you have a
learning that you need to feel shame
after that place. Yes.
Right. Yeah. For those listening through
that arc when when he went to that
place, what he did was he opened his
arms and leaned back a little bit and I
you could just perceive at homeness and
comfort. And when Joe said, "Wait, you
know this
place." Tears came to his eyes like a
tears of recognition and then also a
little bit of the hedging looking down.
Maybe that's the shame Joe's pointing to
right right now. Yeah, it's it's a
really
common pattern.
Um, in this, you know, in this complex
of patterns, one of the things is you're
not allowed to feel
good. You can perform, but you're not
allowed to be seen. You're just like not
allowed to feel good.
And typically, it's because there was a
parent where your joy was overwhelming
to their senses. So they would they
would you know make sure the tall poppy
was cut so to speak or they would make
sure that
the like you've heard this phrase uh I
don't want you to get a big head right
which basically I don't want you to feel
good and so so that's that's what that's
the wrestle that's the emotional
wrestling that happens and often times
people come into the spiritual journey
with the I'm not good enough and or I'm
sorry the self-development journey with
that I'm not good enough and therefore
if I do all this work I'll be good
enough to feel good only to discover
that the journey is actually allowing
themselves to feel good and nothing
about them has to change there's no
perfection needed to feel good there's
just a welcoming of
yourself and and so that vacasillation
occurs or that pendulation occurs of
okay I feel good wait no I be ashamed.
Oh no, I might get too big for my
britches. Oh no, I might be too much for
people I love who will reject me if I
feel this good. And so there's this
natural in and out from the welcoming to
the shame that happens. And it's part of
the process.
And it's it's to be felt and invited.
It's not to be resisted. And what had
you tell him? You know this place, man.
What did that come from? I just saw that
he'd been there before. I don't I I
can't explain how I saw that.
Yeah. Just saw it. I just saw that this
was not his first rodeo that he had
touched it somewhere.
I was guessing work just because the the
artistic
um like the way his there's a care in
the way that he set up his house. And so
my guess is that there's some way in
which he loses himself in this work and
therefore can have a much more
welcoming sense of life.
Yeah. Having had that pointed out to him
that he'd been there before, that he
knows that place almost seems to have
brought out a form of like
reverence or the sacred or something.
Yeah, it does in his reflection.
Yeah. All right, let's go. Let's keep
going. That being that big and peaceful
and spacious is a shameful thing because
someone was jealous of you and so shamed
you out of it when you went
there. Something like
that. So go back there to the welcoming
everything for a minute and when that
shame
arises Yeah. Don't Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. He's savoring it now.
And when that shame arises, welcome that
too.
Okay.
Wow. Yeah. How is that shame when that
shame is welcomed? How is it different
than
It's actually doesn't feel I don't feel
as much resistance as I would have
thought. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. So this is what happens in
your work too. You you you go to that
place and then you feel some sort of
shame. You beat yourself up for
something self-critical. Something pulls
you out of
the out of that place of complete
welcoming.
Yeah. And then you tell yourself some
story that if you didn't criticize
yourself like that, you wouldn't have
the drive to improve. What what's what's
the story you tell yourself?
Um just that like it's I I'm not allowed
to have it. Yeah. Cool.
I think about what you've said about
being in a comparative mindset and I
think about how often I do that.
Can you welcome that?
I can't. Right.
I welcome I welcome my comparative
mindset. It helps me be good in work.
There's a brilliance in it. Yeah. Yeah.
That's great.
Yeah. Wow. So part of the issue is that
you criticize yourself, but the other
part of the issue is that you resist the
experience entirely. Right. You call it
bad. I shouldn't be doing that.
Yeah. Right.
So your question was how do you love
yourself
and or how do you give yourself needs?
How how do you allow yourself the
needs? So what's the need that wouldn't
get
met if you were welcoming?
What's the need that wouldn't get met if
I if
any a need to to to do better to compare
to
Yeah. If you're welcoming that, how
would
that then what's the problem? Yeah.
Yeah.
So, let's go back to you just welcoming
yourself in the conversation cuz one of
the things I notic is that you're really
good at welcoming the thing when you're
in your own space. Mhm. And you've
created a really nice own space. But
when you get in front of somebody else,
there's some way in which
you do that false humility thing. Oh, I
do that a lot. Yeah. Yeah. The defensive
thing it must be. I like how you just
pointed out the false humility thing
there, right? Which was another thing
that was like in his opening question.
How do I recognize my accomplishments?
Yes. And now you called it out for what
it is.
in a way that hits in a totally
different way than just phrasing the
phrasing of his initial question. Right.
And he's ready to receive that and
recognize it. Totally. Yeah. Look,
there's no shame in him in that call
out. Like you can see his face frozen
right here. It's like there's no shame
in that.
Yeah. Yeah. It's cool how much just a
little bit of welcoming yourself can
change things this quickly. And like
imagine what it's like to do it for days
on end or as a lifestyle. Or a
lifestyle. That's right. Yeah. So just
be with everybody here on the call with
that
welcoming, that deep welcoming.
Yeah.
Yeah. I like this. Yeah.
Yeah. And notice how much this is love.
Self
love. Eyes
open. Yeah. Look at them.
Yeah. Yeah. I needed this.
Yeah. Wow. I love that. I needed this.
We all need this.
Yeah. Yeah,
I need this every time. Every time I see
that,
it just hits on another level. Yeah.
Such a beautiful session. It takes it
takes what is a intellectual concept of
self-love into just a 10-minute journey
of experiencing deeper and deeper
layers of not taking selflove and like
applying it in a top down way but being
in an exploration and discovering and
uncovering.
Yeah. the welcoming that creates or that
that opens up the state
of being with oneself with love. Yeah.
It's an interesting thing that over my
years of
meditation, one way that I've described
it in the past is the more I meditate,
the more my meditation is a
welcoming. The less it's a management.
Like it it started as this deep
management that was painful. I think
torture maybe. And it's just more and
more of a a
welcoming of everything.
[Music]
Yeah. Thanks, Brett. That was that was
great. Thanks for that one. Felt really
good to me. Yeah. Thank you, Joe. Thank
you to our participant for your Yeah.
courage in showing up and getting what
you want to be seen. Exactly. And to see
yourself, to welcome yourself. To let us
see you. Yeah. And thank you to
everybody for listening and for
welcoming us into your ears, your
phones, iPads, computers, cars,
relationships, lives, businesses.
If you enjoyed this
episode, I'd love for you to share it
with a friend who you think would get a
lot out of it. And we'd love for people
to rate us, review us, leave us star
ratings, follow us on YouTube at Art of
Accomplishment. You can find us on
LinkedIn X the socials. Until next time,
continue welcoming.
[Music]
Thanks for listening to The Art of
Accomplishment. If you enjoyed what you
heard today, please share it with a
friend and remember to follow us and
rate us in your podcast app. The Art of
Accomplishment was produced and hosted
by myself, Brett Kistler, and Joe
Hudson. Mi Kelly is our production
coordinator, and this episode was edited
by On Replay.
[Music]